Section 6 of Peter Rabbit and Other Tales by Beatrix Potter.
This is a LibriVox recording.
More LibriVox recordings are in the public domain.
For more information, what a volunteer, please visit LibriVox.org.
Recording by Michael Mags.
Peter Rabbit and Other Tales by Beatrix Potter, The Tale of the Flopsie Bunnies.
It is said that the effect of eating too much lettuce is so horrific.
I have never felt sleepy after eating lettuces, but then I am not a rabbit.
They certainly had a very so horrific effect upon the Flopsie Bunnies.
When Benjamin Bunny grew up, he married his cousin Flopsie.
They had a large family, and they were very impervivant and cheerful.
I do not remember the separate names of their children.
They were generally called the Flopsie Bunnies.
As there was not always quite enough to eat, Benjamin used to borrow cabbages from Flopsie's
brother, Peter Rabbit, who kept a nursery garden.
Sometimes, Peter Rabbit had no cabbages to spare.
When this happened, the Flopsie Bunnies went across the field to a rubbish heap, in the
ditch outside Mr McGregor's garden.
Mr McGregor's rubbish heap was a mixture.
There were jump bolts and paper bags, mountains of chopped grass from the mowing machine,
which always tasted oily, and some rotten vegetable marrows, and an old bootle to.
One day, oh joy, there were a quantity of overgrown lettuces, which had shot into flour.
The Flopsie Bunnies simply stuffed lettuces.
By degrees, one after another, they were overcome with slumber and lay down in the mown grass.
Benjamin was not so much overcome as his children.
Before going to sleep, he was sufficiently wide awake to put a paper bag over his head
to keep off the flies.
The little Flopsie Bunnies slept delightfully in the warm sun, from the long beyond the garden
came the distant clackety sound of the mowing machine.
The blue bottles buzzed about the wall, and a little old mouse, picked over the rubbish
among the jump-ups.
I can tell you her name, she was called Thomasina Titlnice, a wood mouse with a long tail.
She rustled across the paper bag, and awakened Benjamin Bunny.
The mouse apologized profusely and said that she knew Peter Rabbit.
While she and Benjamin were talking close under the wall, they heard a heavy tread above
their heads, and suddenly Mr. McGregor emptied out a sackful of lawn mowing right up on the
top of the sleeping Flopsie Bunnies.
Benjamin shrank down under his paper bag, the mouse hid in a jam pot.
The little rabbits smiled sweetly in their sleep under the shower of grass.
They did not awake because the lettuces have been so so horrific.
They dreamt that their mother Flopsie was tucking them up in a hay bed.
The McGregor looked down after emptying his sack.
He saw some funny little brand tips of ears sticking up through the lawn mowing.
He stared at them for some time.
Presently a fly settled on one of them, and it moved.
Mr. McGregor climbed down onto the rubbish heap.
"One, two, three, four, five, six, little rabbits," said he, as he dropped them into his
sack.
The Flopsie Bunnies dreamt that their mother was turning them over in bed.
They stirred a little in their sleep, but they did not wake up.
The McGregor tied up the sack, and left it on the wall.
He went to put away the mowing machine.
While he was gone, Mrs. Flopsie Bunnie, who had remained at home, came across the field.
She looked suspiciously at the sack, and wondered where everybody was.
Then the mice came out of her jam pot, and Benjamin took the paperbag off his head, and
they told the doleful tale.
Benjamin and Flopsie were in despair.
They could not undo the string.
But Mrs. Tittle mice was a resourceful person.
She nibbled a hole in the bottom corner of the sack.
The little rabbits were pulled out, and pinched to wake them.
Their parents stuffed the empty sack with three rotten vegetable marrows, an old
blacking brush, and two decayed turnips.
Then they all hid under a bush, and watched for Mr. McGregor.
The McGregor came back, and picked up the sack, and carried it off.
He carried it hanging down, as if it were rather heavy.
The Flopsie Bunnies followed at a safe distance.
They watched him go into his house, and then they crept up to the window to listen.
Mr. McGregor threw down the sack on the stone floor, in a way that would have been extremely
painful to the Flopsie Bunnies, if they had happened to have been inside it.
They could hear him drag his chair on the flags, and chuckle.
"One, two, three, four, five, six, little rabbits," said Mr. McGregor.
"Hi, what's that? What they've been spoiling now?"
"In quite Mrs. McGregor," "One, two, three, four, five, six, little fat rabbits," repeated
Mr. McGregor, counting on his fingers, "One, two, three, don't you be silly?
What do you mean you silly old man? In the sack, one, two, three, four, five, six," replied
Mr. McGregor. The youngest Flopsie Bunnies got upon the windowsill.
Mrs. McGregor took hold of the sack, and felt it. She said she could feel six, but they
must be old rabbits because they were so hard, and all different shapes.
"Not fit, do we? But the skins will do fine to line my old cloak? Line your old cloak?"
She said to Mr. McGregor, "I shall sell them and buy myself backy."
"Rabbit, tobacco!" "I shall skin them and cut off their reds."
Mrs. McGregor untied the sack, and put her hand inside. When she felt the vegetables,
she became very, very angry. She said that Mr. McGregor had done it up her purse.
And Mr. McGregor was very angry, too. One of the rotomaros came flying through the kitchen
window, and hit the youngest Flopsie Bunny. It was rather hurt.
Then Benjamin and Flopsie thought that it was time to go home.
So Mr. McGregor did not get his tobacco. Mrs. McGregor did not get her rabbit skins.
But next Christmas, Thomasina Titlemys got a present of enough rabbit wool to make herself
a cloak and a hood, and a handsome muff and a pair of warm mittens.
End of the tale of the Flopsie Bunnies.